
    NAME

        ocspcheck - check a certificate for validity against its OCSP responder.

    SYNOPSIS

        ocspcheck [-Nv] [-C CAfile] [-i staplefile] [-o staplefile] file

    DESCRIPTION

        The ocspcheck utility validates a PEM format certificate against the OCSP responder encoded
        in the certificate specified by the file argument. Normally it should be used for checking
        server certificates and maintaining saved OCSP responses to be used for OCSP stapling.

        The options are as follows:

        -C CAfile
                Specify a PEM format root certificate bundle to use for the validation of requests.
                By default no certificates are used beyond those in the certificate chain provided
                by the file argument.

        -i staplefile
                Specify an input filename from which a DER-encoded OCSP response will be read
                instead of fetching it from the OCSP server. A filename of - will read the response
                from standard input.

        -N      Do not use a nonce value in the OCSP request, or validate that the nonce was
                returned in the OCSP response. By default a nonce is always used and validated
                when retrieving a response from an OCSP server. The use of this flag is a security
                risk as it will allow OCSP responses to be replayed. It should not be used unless
                the OCSP server does not support the use of OCSP nonces.

        -o staplefile
                Specify an output filename where the DER encoded response from the OCSP server
                will be written, if the OCSP response validates. A filename of '-' will write
                the response to standard output. By default the response is not saved.

        -v      Increase verbosity. This flag may be specified multiple times to get more
                verbose output. The default behaviour is to be silent unless something goes wrong.

    EXIT STATUS

        The ocspcheck utility exits 0 if the OCSP response validates for the certificate in file
        and all output is successfully written out. ocspcheck exits >0 if an error occurs or
        the OCSP response fails to validate.

    SEE ALSO

        nc(1), tls_config_set_ocsp_staple_file(3), tls_config_set_ocsp_staple_mem(3), httpd(8)

    HISTORY

        The ocspcheck utility first appeared in OpenBSD 6.1.

    AUTHORS

        ocspcheck was written by Bob Beck.

    CAVEATS

        While ocspcheck could possibly be used in scripts to query responders for server
        certificates seen on client connections, this is almost always a bad idea.

    BUGS

        ocspcheck will create the output file if it does not exist.
        On failure a newly created output file will not be removed.

                                   --------------------------------
